Applied scientists benefit nearly every industry since they're responsible for finding ways to use technology to improve our lives. They often work in teams with professionals across various disciplines covering a range of fields. Applied scientist roles are great options for people who want to contribute to improving business processes and making a difference in other people’s lives. They can work on specialized or elite projects and create new technologies that improve the landscape of science.

If you’re interested in optics, electrical engineering, material science, or machine learning, consider becoming an applied scientist.

IBM
specialization

Applied Data Science
Get hands-on skills for a career in data science. Learn Python, analyze and visualize data. Apply your skills to data science and machine learning.

4.7

(7,568 ratings)

65,681 already enrolled

Beginner level

Average time: 2 month(s)

Learn at your own pace

Skills you'll build:

Model Selection, Data Analysis, Python Programming, Data Visualization, Predictive Modelling, Dashboards and Charts, dash, Matplotlib, Data Science, Pandas, Jupyter notebooks, Numpy, Github, Jupyter Notebook, K-Means Clustering, Methodology, Data Science Methodology

What is an applied scientist?
Applied scientists have in-depth knowledge of one or more scientific fields, use methods and research skills to solve real-world problems, and help businesses meet their objectives. They typically devote their time to developing new technologies, devices, and processes that help improve the landscape of their industry and the quality of life. Unlike other types of science, which involve posing theoretical questions, applied science finds practical solutions and functional applications for its results. 

Applied science is an overarching term for scientists who work with various scientific methodologies to create new inventions or processes that improve daily lives. Applied scientists tend to work in private sector industries, such as health care, banking, engineering, or technology, to devise innovative solutions that advance their field or focus of study.